---
layout: post
title: "274 hIndex"
categories: leetcode
tags: sort
---
>
Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.

>According to the definition of h-index on Wikipedia: "A scientist has index h if h of his/her N papers have at least h citations each, and the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each."

>For example, given citations = [3, 0, 6, 1, 5], which means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively. Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, his h-index is 3.

>Note: If there are several possible values for h, the maximum one is taken as the h-index.

> Hint:
>
  - An easy approach is to sort the array first.
  - What are the possible values of h-index?
  - A faster approach is to use extra space.

####1
我想的是最直接的方法，先排序，然后在从最大值开始判断。
{% highlight java linenos %}
public class Solution {
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        if(citations == null) return 0;
        quickSort(citations);
        int n = citations.length;
        for(int i = n; i >= 1; i--){
			if(citations[n-i] >= i) return i;
		}
		return 0;
    }
    private void swap(int[] nums,int i, int j){
	 		if(i == j) return;
	 		if(nums[i] == nums[j]) return;
	    	nums[i] ^= nums[j];
	    	nums[j] ^= nums[i];
	    	nums[i] ^= nums[j];
	    }
	    private boolean less(int[] a, int i, int j){
	    	return a[i] < a[j];
	    }
	public void quickSort(int[] nums){
		if(nums == null || nums.length < 2) return;
		quickSort(nums,0,nums.length - 1);
	}
	private void quickSort(int[] nums,int lo,int hi){
		if(lo >= hi) return;
		int j = partition(nums,lo,hi);
		quickSort(nums,lo,j-1);
		quickSort(nums,j+1,hi);
	}
	private int partition(int[] nums,int lo, int hi){
		int i = lo;
		int j = hi+1;
		while(true){
			while(less(nums,++i,lo)) if(i == hi) break;
			while(less(nums,lo,--j)) if(j == lo) break;
			if(i >= j) break;
			swap(nums,i,j);
		}
		swap(nums,j,lo);
		return j;
	}
}
{% endhighlight java %}

####2 most votes
by [pythonicjava](https://leetcode.com/discuss/user/pythonicjava) <br>
O(n)的方法。
{% highlight java linenos %}
public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
		if(citations == null || citations.length == 0) return 0;
		int n = citations.length;
		int[] aux = new int[n+1];
		for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
			if(citations[i] > n) aux[n]++;
			else aux[citations[i]]++;
		}
		System.err.println(Arrays.toString(aux));
		int sum = 0;
		for(int i = n; i >= 1; i--){
			sum += aux[i];
			if(sum >= i) return i;
		}
		return 0;
	}
{% endhighlight java %}